battleship/DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# Battleship Backend Deployment (Render + Docker)

This repo is ready to deploy to Render as a Docker Web Service and to connect to a MySQL instance on Aiven. Frontend can be deployed to Vercel.

## What’s included
- Dockerfile (multi-stage build: Maven -> lightweight JRE)
- .dockerignore (smaller image)
- render.yaml (Render blueprint with health check and env vars)
- Spring Boot already binds to `PORT` via `server.port=${PORT:8080}`

## Environment variables
Set these on Render:
- APP_JWT_SECRET: strong random string (or Base64). Example: `openssl rand -base64 48`
- APP_JWT_EXPIRATION_MS: optional, default `86400000` (1 day)
- DB_URL: JDBC URL from Aiven (MySQL). Example:
  - `jdbc:mysql://<HOST>:<PORT>/<DBNAME>?sslMode=REQUIRED&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true&serverTimezone=UTC&useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=utf8`
  - Prefer the JDBC URL provided by Aiven’s console. If Aiven requires a CA cert, either use their public CA or provide a Java truststore.
- DB_USERNAME: Aiven DB user
- DB_PASSWORD: Aiven DB password
- CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS: your Vercel URL, e.g. `https://your-frontend.vercel.app`

## Deploy on Render (Blueprint)
1. Push this repo to GitHub.
2. On Render, New -> Blueprint and point to this repo.
3. Confirm the service `battleship-backend` detected from `render.yaml`.
4. Fill in the env var values above (you can update later in the service settings).
5. Deploy. Render will build the Docker image and run the service.

Health check: `/actuator/health/readiness` (configured in `render.yaml`).

## Deploy on Render (manual Docker service)
If you don’t use the blueprint:
1. New -> Web Service -> Use existing repo.
2. Environment: Docker.
3. Root directory: repo root (where the Dockerfile is).
4. Health check path: `/actuator/health/readiness`.
5. Add the env vars above.
6. Deploy.

## Local test with Docker

Build the image:

- Linux/macOS:
```bash
docker build -t battleship:local .
```

- Windows (cmd.exe):
```bat
docker build -t battleship:local .
```

Run with H2 (no DB envs) — good for a quick smoke test:

- Linux/macOS:
```bash
export PORT=8080
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -e PORT=$PORT battleship:local
```

- Windows (cmd.exe):
```bat
set PORT=8080
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -e PORT=%PORT% battleship:local
```

Run against Aiven MySQL:

- Linux/macOS:
```bash
export PORT=8080
export APP_JWT_SECRET=change-me
export DB_URL="jdbc:mysql://HOST:PORT/DB?sslMode=REQUIRED&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true&serverTimezone=UTC"
export DB_USERNAME=youruser
export DB_PASSWORD=yourpass
export CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://your-frontend.vercel.app

docker run --rm -p $PORT:$PORT \
  -e PORT=$PORT \
  -e APP_JWT_SECRET="$APP_JWT_SECRET" \
  -e DB_URL="$DB_URL" \
  -e DB_USERNAME="$DB_USERNAME" \
  -e DB_PASSWORD="$DB_PASSWORD" \
  -e CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS="$CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS" \
  battleship:local
```

- Windows (cmd.exe):
```bat
set PORT=8080
set APP_JWT_SECRET=change-me
set DB_URL=jdbc:mysql://HOST:PORT/DB?sslMode=REQUIRED&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true&serverTimezone=UTC
set DB_USERNAME=youruser
set DB_PASSWORD=yourpass
set CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://your-frontend.vercel.app

docker run --rm -p %PORT%:%PORT% ^
  -e PORT=%PORT% ^
  -e APP_JWT_SECRET=%APP_JWT_SECRET% ^
  -e DB_URL="%DB_URL%" ^
  -e DB_USERNAME=%DB_USERNAME% ^
  -e DB_PASSWORD=%DB_PASSWORD% ^
  -e CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=%CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS% ^
  battleship:local
```

## Frontend (Vercel)
- Point Vercel to your frontend repo.
- Configure the frontend to call this backend’s base URL on Render (e.g., `https://battleship-backend.onrender.com`).
- Make sure the backend has `CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` set to your Vercel domain.

## Notes
- Flyway migrations run automatically on startup.
- If startup fails due to DB connectivity/SSL, copy the exact JDBC URL from Aiven and ensure SSL params match their guidance.
- Swagger UI is disabled in prod by default; enable via properties if needed.

Commit message:

Update CORS and DB env config for MySQL compatibility
Revised deployment documentation to use SPRING_DATASOURCE_* environment variables and clarified MySQL provider compatibility. Updated SecurityConfig to permit all OPTIONS requests for CORS preflight. Refactored WebConfig to centralize CORS origin resolution and added CorsConfigurationSource bean for improved CORS handling.

battleship/DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# Battleship Backend Deployment (Render + Docker)

This repo is ready to deploy to Render as a Docker Web Service and to connect to a MySQL instance on Aiven (or any MySQL-compatible provider). Frontend can be deployed to Vercel.

## What’s included
- Dockerfile (multi-stage build: Maven -> lightweight JRE)
- .dockerignore (smaller image)
- render.yaml (Render blueprint with health check and env vars)
- Spring Boot already binds to `PORT` via `server.port=${PORT:8080}`

## Environment variables
Set these on Render:
- APP_JWT_SECRET: strong random string (or Base64). Example: `openssl rand -base64 48`
- APP_JWT_EXPIRATION_MS: optional, default `86400000` (1 day)
- SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL: JDBC URL from your MySQL provider. Examples:
  - `jdbc:mysql://<HOST>:<PORT>/<DBNAME>?sslMode=REQUIRED&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true&serverTimezone=UTC&useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=utf8`
  - Prefer the JDBC URL provided by your provider’s console. If a CA cert is required, ensure it’s trusted by the JRE.
- SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME: DB user
- SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD: DB password
- CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS: your Vercel URL, e.g. `https://your-frontend.vercel.app`

Important: This backend is configured for MySQL (dependencies: `mysql-connector-j`, `flyway-mysql`). If you use Postgres (e.g., Render’s managed Postgres), it will not work without code and migration changes. Use a MySQL provider (Aiven, PlanetScale, AWS RDS MySQL, etc.).

## Deploy on Render (Blueprint)
1. Push this repo to GitHub.
2. On Render, New -> Blueprint and point to this repo.
3. Confirm the service `battleship-backend` detected from `render.yaml`.
4. Fill in the env var values above (you can update later in the service settings).
5. Deploy. Render will build the Docker image and run the service.

Health check: `/actuator/health/readiness` (configured in `render.yaml`).

## Deploy on Render (manual Docker service)
If you don’t use the blueprint:
1. New -> Web Service -> Use existing repo.
2. Environment: Docker.
3. Root directory: repo root (where the Dockerfile is).
4. Health check path: `/actuator/health/readiness`.
5. Add the env vars above.
6. Deploy.

## Local test with Docker

Build the image:

- Linux/macOS:
```bash
docker build -t battleship:local .
```

- Windows (cmd.exe):
```bat
docker build -t battleship:local .
```

Run with H2 (no DB envs) — quick smoke test only. Note: When no datasource is provided, the app will try to start, but most endpoints require a DB. Prefer testing with a real MySQL URL.

- Linux/macOS:
```bash
export PORT=8080
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -e PORT=$PORT battleship:local
```

- Windows (cmd.exe):
```bat
set PORT=8080
docker run --rm -p 8080:8080 -e PORT=%PORT% battleship:local
```

Run against MySQL:

- Linux/macOS:
```bash
export PORT=8080
export APP_JWT_SECRET=change-me
export SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL="jdbc:mysql://HOST:PORT/DB?sslMode=REQUIRED&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true&serverTimezone=UTC"
export SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=youruser
export SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=yourpass
export CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://your-frontend.vercel.app

docker run --rm -p $PORT:$PORT \
  -e PORT=$PORT \
  -e APP_JWT_SECRET="$APP_JWT_SECRET" \
  -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL="$SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL" \
  -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME="$SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME" \
  -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD="$SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD" \
  -e CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS="$CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS" \
  battleship:local
```

- Windows (cmd.exe):
```bat
set PORT=8080
set APP_JWT_SECRET=change-me
set SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL=jdbc:mysql://HOST:PORT/DB?sslMode=REQUIRED&allowPublicKeyRetrieval=true&serverTimezone=UTC
set SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=youruser
set SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=yourpass
set CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://your-frontend.vercel.app

docker run --rm -p %PORT%:%PORT% ^
  -e PORT=%PORT% ^
  -e APP_JWT_SECRET=%APP_JWT_SECRET% ^
  -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL="%SPRING_DATASOURCE_URL%" ^
  -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME=%SPRING_DATASOURCE_USERNAME% ^
  -e SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD=%SPRING_DATASOURCE_PASSWORD% ^
  -e CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=%CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS% ^
  battleship:local
```

## Frontend (Vercel)
- Point Vercel to your frontend repo.
- Configure the frontend to call this backend’s base URL on Render (e.g., `https://battleship-backend.onrender.com`).
- Make sure the backend has `CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` set to your Vercel domain.

## Notes
- Flyway migrations run automatically on startup. The DB user must be allowed to CREATE/ALTER tables.
- If startup fails due to DB connectivity/SSL, copy the exact JDBC URL from your provider and ensure SSL params match their guidance.
- Swagger UI is disabled in prod by default; enable via properties if needed.
